>> David Khourshid: In this exercise we're
going to actually be using Usequery and
replacing a bunch of useEffects and use
date to fetch data with Tanstack Query.
If you need a reference to where or
like how to do it,
then I would really recommend you
go to tanstack.com query I believe.
And there are some
starter guides over here.
It gives you an overview of how to
fetch data using Tanstack Query.
So we'll take a couple minutes and
we will refactor this component.
So if we go to Fetch page,
there's a couple of places
where we're fetching data.
You could see it over here,
we're fetching flights, and
over here we're fetching hotels.
So what I want you to do is
convert this to using Tanstack
query just to get a feel for using third
party libraries for fetching data and
how much boilerplate
code it actually removes.
All right, so here's how we could get
rid of all of those useEffects and
use dates and
just make our code a lot simpler.
The first thing that we need to do is, and
this is honestly the tiniest bit
of boilerplate for React's query,
but it's required by it,
otherwise it will yell at you.
You want to first create a query client.
And this comes from Tanstack React Query.
And this query client is the central
place where it's basically going to hold
that cache.
So you might think of Tanstack, like React
Query as, as a data fetching library.
It's actually not.
It's more of a local cache
library that just works really
well with Async data, and
that's sort of its primary use case.
The other thing that you're going to
want is a query client's provider.
And so this also comes from Tanstack
Query, you pass the clients into it.
And so what this is going to do
is anything that uses Usequery,
use mutation inside of your components,
it's going to be able to read
that query client and use it.
So now let's get rid of these useEffects.
So let's look for this one.
We're loading flights over here.
It's time to make some code disappear.
So we're going to get some stuff.
We don't know exactly what this is yet,
but
we're going to use Query and
the first thing that we're
going to do is we're going
to pass in the query key and
this is just going to be our flights and
we are going to put in our flight search.
So flightsearch and
then we actually have to fetch the data.
So that is our query function and we're
going to pass in the flight search to it.
And also I need to import this.
And so this is going to give
us a few very useful things.
It's going to give us data, it's going to
give us an error if there is an error.
And it's also going to give
us some very handy booleans.
So it has is loading.
And if you really want to,
instead of using the Booleans,
you could use status, and
that way is loading equals,
status equals, and
then you have error pending or success.
So internally, Tan Stack Query
maintains its own state machine for
dealing with these requests, but for
now we're just going to use is loading.
And so now we could get rid of this state.
And, and
we don't need this anymore or this or
actually we don't need any
of this because if we just
rename this to flights,
we no longer need this or this.
And now we're just using
Tanstack query for it.
Now, before I save this,
I want to show you the difference between,
you know, using Tanstack query and
not using it.
So if I go to fetch.
Error has already been, all right,
actually I'll just do this.
I'll save it.
Anyway, so we have error over here.
It's gonna be error message,
I think that that's good.
Okay, so now let's search for
a flight to Tokyo departing soon.
So we are going to get our flights.
Now, if we go back to search and
we don't change anything and
we search,
we instantly get the results again.
And the reason is because it's cached.
So this is one of those things where this
would require even more code to implement.
And it is a very useful feature to have so
that you don't make unnecessary API
requests and you don't keep your
users waiting for too long.
So now when you select a flight and
you change the hotel,
if I go back to search and I search for
hotels again,
it's going to keep on searching.
And that's because we didn't
implement a caching layer.
And so it's not using react query,
it's just going to keep fetching over and
over again.
But hopefully you could see that
we removed a lot of useStates.
We removed a big useEffect and
we're just replacing that
with a single usequery call.
It's like one of those things
that people wish were just built
into React because it's
such a useful library.
>> Speaker 2: One.
Major difference between the older
versions of React Query and
the newer one is the is
pending versus is loading.
Because used to be is loading was just
like anytime it was fetching data,
but then they changed it to be pending.
Because there are times when you
wanted to show a loader if it's like
refetching versus when it's just
initializing the first fetch and
then just showing whatever's cached and
then updating with whatever is cached.
And so I had to make sure that
when I was upgrading in that
process that I used the proper key.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah,
that's a very good thing to point out,
there is a subtle difference.
Thankfully, if you do hover over,
it does tell you when each one will be
active, and I think this one is different.
Is true whenever the first fetch for
a query is in flight, right?
>> Speaker 2: Yep, so it's a combination
of both isFetching and isPending.
>> David Khourshid: Yeah.
Awesome.
>> Speaker 3: As someone new to
React Server components and Next js,
it sounds like I'd reach for Tanstack
query for any use client component,
or does this also play well
with server components?
>> David Khourshid: I
would say it's either or.
So with server components,
the idea is that you're awaiting your
data like in the component itself,
and actually let me search for.
Let me search for one of these.
So something that I forgot to
mention is that this entire app,
besides just the exercises,
is a flight itinerary booking app
that I have started to build.
So it is messy, but
it is also a good way of just putting you
into a real world app that is in progress.
So I do invite you to like, if you want
to finish the app, play around with it.
It's something that I did start,
but this would be an example
of using a server component.
So notice that there's no use clients,
we have an itinerary page.
I'm using a database to
just get my itineraries and
I'm actually awaiting this
directly inside the component.
So yeah, you could also use Suspense.
I believe I have.
Yep.
I have one page where I am using Suspense
and this is for
like showing the flight results and
actually let me just demonstrate
that to you real quick.
Again, this is extremely half built,
but let's say that
we have a trip to Minneapolis and
we're just doing stuff.
We create the itinerary, and
then we want to add a destination.
So this is just like a fully featured or
a fully featured app in progress.
And then like if you're booking flights,
you're going to see suspense in
action because we have this,
we have our flights, and
this all happened within the same page.
So.
Yep, there's suspense in action as well.
Then we have some hotels for
us to choose from.
Yeah.
So
I would really recommend reading the react
docs on using server components and
suspense.
And there's also a few front end
master's courses on that too that go
much more in depth than
I will in this course.